[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> I'm Jonny Enoch.
And this is "Mystery Teachings."
Have you ever been scrolling
through your news feed
on social media and ran
into a seemingly benign
esoteric symbol, but below it
is an elaborate explanation
that it must be evil because
it has a hidden meaning?
Well that's not always
the case as there
are numerous meanings to
the various logos, names,
and colors we use.
And you might interpret
them differently
once you know what to look for.
In this episode, we will
explore the hidden language
of symbolism, why it exists, and
how you can learn to read it.
Every day on the commute
to work most people
are used to seeing that
two-tailed green mermaid
on the side of a coffee cup,
which is not only a siren that
lures people in for
caffeine, but it also
represents an important
figure from European folklore
and the serpent mother of
the royal families known
as Melusine.
However she's also the
Egyptian goddess Isis
and the sign for Pisces.
Maybe you've noticed
a Mazda car emblem
when you're in traffic, which
says in their own literature
that they are named after the
Persian Zoroastrian God Ahura
Mazda.
And they used a symbol for
one of the elemental aspects
of human existence, which
is a winged man in a flying
disk, Faravahar or
Fravashi in the Avestan.
But sometimes esoteric
symbolism is even more shocking
when it's found in a story of
a popular iconic comic book
hero or a movie that you've
seen countless times.
You might be surprised
to learn that Superman
is an encoded story
about an Anunnaki ET
Savior of humanity from a
Nibiru-like planet called
Krypton.
Both writer Jerry Siegel
and artist Joe Shuster
were of Jewish descent.
Superman's name was Kal-El.
His father was Jor-El.
And the symbol on his chest
was the Hebrew letter lamed
which looks like an S and is
connected to the House of El.
according to the
Book of Genesis,
the Elohim were gods that
created us in their image.
But in order to find out why
we have esoteric symbolism,
we don't have to look much
further than our great teachers
of the past who became martyrs
for having an idealism that
was far before their time.
At other times,
there were rebels
that burned great
libraries to the ground,
forcing the mystery
schools of antiquity
to hide sacred knowledge behind
a cloaked veil of allegories
and symbols.
Any knowledge that was intended
for the public or the profane
was considered
exoteric knowledge.
Countless civilizations
have come before us,
but a lot of their
writings were lost
to great wars and cataclysms.
But they left behind a
language of symbolism preserved
and passed down by
the mystery schools.
This symbolism is
powerful due to how
the collective
consciousness of humanity
responds strongly to it.
And there's a hidden
language all around us.
Take our statues for example.
In the ancient world
when people were
bowing before gods
and goddesses,
leaving offerings, prayers,
to marble sculptures,
the wise would stand back
and observe hidden knowledge
personified into stone
about celestial mechanics
and solar pageantry.
We even find that
today with the Statue
of St. Peter at St. Peter's
Basilica at the Vatican
where people have kissed
the feet off of it.
And according to the
Catholic Encyclopedia,
it's actually Zeus or Jupiter
the ruler of Cassiopeia.
Members of secret
societies are taught
to leave behind signs
and tokens in their work.
This could be the reason
why your Gmail logo looks
like a Masonic apron
and App Store icon
is a compass and a square.
Traditionally in order to
decode any of these symbols,
you're required to have
a classical education
of the seven liberal
arts and sciences.
This would include things
like grammar, rhetoric, logic,
arithmetic, geometry,
music, and astronomy.
But sometimes we use
esoteric symbols,
and we're not aware of it.
For example many alphabets
have hidden meanings
behind their letters,
including our own, which
we inherit from the Phoenicians,
or the Hebrew and Arabic.
The Egyptian hieroglyphics
are a great symbolic alphabet
which can be read in
multiple ways or directions
depending on the way the
characters are facing you.
For example, we have
a long writing style
that you see on temple walls,
a shorthand version which
is much like how we will
have a cursive writing
and then we have
printed writing.
And then there is a
mystical way of reading
the letters that was reserved
for only the initiates.
When we examine esoteric
and exoteric languages,
there were two ways
of writing them.
One way was from left to
right, which was exoteric
or publicly known knowledge
because you're writing it away
from the heart.
If you write anything from right
to left, towards the heart,
these were the secrets
of the ancient world.
If you look at Jerusalem from
the center of its land mass
from space, it's divided
up with all the languages
to the West being
written left to right
and all the languages in the
East are written right to left.
According to Madam
Blavatsky, the mysteries--
like when you're reading ancient
scriptures and mythologies--
are like a lock that has
to be turned seven times
to decode them.
Here are the seven
keys according to her.
We have a physiological
or anthropological key,
which we'd also call the human
key or being biographical.
When we turn the lock again, we
would have an astronomical key,
meaning that we would have
astrotheological aspects
encoded into a story.
We'd have a symbolic key.
We'll have a
theogonic key, meaning
a certain religious tie-in.
We would have a
meteorological key,
which we would also connect
to numerical or geometrical
values.
We also had a metaphysical key.
And finally there
was a mystical key.
She also mentioned a combination
of a cosmogeological key
and even a general
scientific key
that was called
the key of matter.
We see this in the Bible as
it is an encoded document that
borrows from the ancient
Egyptians, the Hindu
scriptures, Jainism,
and Buddhism.
It's filled with
many secrets that
were hidden in its symbolism
by the mystery schools
with much of the actual
hidden in the literal.
First of all, one secret is that
the New Testament is actually
older than the Old
Testament and they both
contain hidden astrotheological
stories about not only
the procession of the
equinoxes or ages,
but also the solar mysteries
with Jesus, the son, and his 12
helpers are constellations with
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John
being the four seasons.
Let's examine the first
book of the Bible, Genesis.
We know that it comes from
the Sumerian Enuma Elish.
And according to some
scholars, they now
believe the story
of Abraham and Sarah
is in reference to the
Indian Brahman or Brahma.
And Sarah is a Sarasvati
River mentioned in the Vedas.
We find occult
anatomy is encoded
into the story of Cain
and Abel with the two
lobes of the cerebrum
were also called
Cain and Abel by the ancients.
The legend of the curse of
Cain is the curse of unbalance.
And for the murder of the
spirit or the equilibrium--
which is our balance--
Cain is sent forth as a wanderer
upon the face of the earth.
Maybe you've watched
Disney's "Snow White
in the Seven Dwarves" before.
This is a symbolic
story about how
it says Israel was white
as snow, meaning purity,
with its name coming from the
Egyptian Isis, Ra, and El.
And the seven dwarves
are the personalities
of the seven churches of Asia.
On my trips to the
Vatican, I always
notice a famous statue in the
courtyard of the Fontana della
Pigna or the Fountain
of the Pinecone, which
is just outside of the
Egyptian wing of their museum.
What's very
interesting about this
is that on either side of
it, we find two peacocks
which represent
immortality, especially
in relation to the
Indian mysteries.
And just behind it, we find
an open Egyptian sarcophagi
telling us that this is the
passageway to everlasting life.
In this connection to opening up
to regeneration in immortality,
we're seeing that
this is symbolic
of the spiritual doorway
to the brain, which
is the pineal gland.
This is often symbolized in
the mysteries as a pinecone.
In fact, the Pontiff
even has a pinecone
at the end of his staff.
And Jesus mentions
it in the Bible.
When we look at Matthew 6:22,
he says, "The light of the body
is the eye.
If therefore thine
eye be single,
thy whole body shall
be full of light."
Probably the most
common symbolism
we find all throughout the
mysteries is the serpent.
It is found all over
the world and represents
different types of energy.
We find it in Asia
with the Naga,
in Mexico with
Quetzalcoatl and Kukulkan
In Egypt, we find
it on the headdress
of the king protruding
from the pineal gland.
It's on the caduceus
or the medical symbol
we use today on the side
of your ambulance showing
the serpents moving up the
spine and awakening the pineal
and the two swan
wings on either side,
or the hemispheres of your brain
representing the equilibrium.
The serpent is among
the oldest worship
symbols venerated in the world.
Anthropologists have even
found caves in Africa
that portrays serpent worship
going back 70,000 years.
What we believe
is this tradition
comes from Atlantis,
as according
to the Arab geographers, the
mythical island was often
referred to as Antilia
Island or the Dragon's Isle.
The serpent is symbolized as the
awakening of the spirit fire,
immortality, and
regeneration within us.
It is also represented
on the cartouche
of the Egyptian
royalty or name titles.
When it is facing inwards,
it means the initiate
is seeking immortality.
But if the serpents are
facing away from each other,
it means immortality
has been attained.
The alchemists, inspired
by ancient Egypt,
Greece, and the Gnostics,
often used the symbol
of the ouroboros or the
serpent eating its own tail,
to symbolize
immortality and wisdom.
In the Book of
Genesis, Adam and Eve
eat from the tree of knowledge
after conversing with a talking
snake that moves up
a tree, or the spine,
as portrayed in
the Sistine Chapel
by the master, Michelangelo.
According to Blavatsky,
she says this
is based on the tree
rights of ancient India
which is where we
get the tradition
of the Kabbalistic tree of
life and the Jewish candelabrum
or menorah with
its tree branches
holding candles that
represent the planetary bodies
of our solar system and
the chakras on the menorah.
Later in the Book of
Genesis in chapter 49:17,
it mentions how the
tribe of Dan moved along
the path of the serpent, or
the ley lines of the earth,
which is why our ancient
temples have been built
with geomagnetic energy
and how the adder was
biting at their feet.
The serpent can be
geomagnetic and move along
the ley lines of the earth.
Or it can be a type of universal
or invisible energy from which
the ancients called Fohat,
and which Tesla called scalar,
the German secret
societies called Vril.
And today we call it zero-point.
Blavatsky tells us in
the secret doctrine
that the ancients
understood that our universe
and solar system was formed with
serpentine movements, a Fohat,
using the debris in space.
In fact, we know in our sciences
that this is how it works.
Take the formation of
rocky planets for instance.
We're told that an
embryonic mass gathers
from the plaza of stars.
And then there's a
pushing and a pulling
from centripetal and
centrifugal forces.
And because of a heating and
cooling with radioactive decay,
we have the gathering
of moisture.
This is not only what
causes the formation
of these subterranean
complexes that
are like a honeycomb
pattern, but this is also
where the underwater
mantle comes from.
I think it's amazing
that Blavatsky
and the esoteric teachings
have said this all along
with these serpentine
movements in the universe.
Colors also hold special meaning
in esoteric teachings, not only
the ones that we can see, but
also the invisible ones outside
of the visible light spectrum.
To the secret societies,
the colors red, blue, green,
and yellow were very important,
because these are the hidden
prismatic colors of the sun.
We not only find the
symbolism on the Golden Dawn's
rosy cross, but
the symbol is also
found on the Eastern
Star of Freemasonry.
Some colors have been
important to alchemy,
with gold and silver being
like the sun and the moon.
But then there are
the rainbow colors
which are also associated
with the chakras and auras.
When we associate them
with a constellation,
we typically put their
formation in a wheel.
Not only are color
frequencies associated
with musical notes and
the music of the spheres,
but when they're represented
in a rainbow pattern,
they can symbolize a
Kundalini awakening
as the energy sources
of the body are lit up.
Another area we need to
examine with esoteric symbolism
is architectonics and the
unique and interesting design
of occult cities.
The principal for this
comes from Plotinus
who wrote an essay called
"The Beautiful," where
he said that we find this beauty
in all things through symmetry.
And the importance of aesthetics
was that the more beautiful
your buildings were, the more
heightened of a consciousness
a civilization would have.
In comparison to today
where a lot of our buildings
are these square, block,
stone, cold-like places.
We also find an
example of what's
known as the triptych arch
inside of government buildings.
And this is where you
would see a doorway that
has three layers.
Again inside of there,
we find the solar trinity
of the morning sun, the
midday sun, the evening sun.
Or you go back into the Father,
the Son, and the Holy Spirit,
mind, body, and spirit, Brahma,
Shiva, Vishnu, Osiris, Isis,
and Horus.
We also find these
occult secrets
encoded into cities like
London, which the Romans called
Londinium, or the
ancient name Lugh Danann,
named after the Celtic sun god.
It should be noted that if
you ever visit Westminster,
you'll notice that there is a
very important obelisk there
which comes from Egypt.
And it was raised in an area
called On or Heliopolis.
This is the city of the light.
It's very important to masonry.
And so by placing
that obelisk there,
and in other important cities
such as New York, France, as
well as just outside
of the Vatican,
this symbolism tells us that
the light of the mysteries
is there.
But this symbolic link to
obelisk doesn't end there.
As we also know
that Big Ben, which
is built on the
Benben stone, is also
in the formation
of a giant obelisk.
The same is true when we
look at Paris or Par-Isis,
the city of lights.
When you examine
the Eiffel Tower,
we know that Mr Eiffel
spent time in Egypt.
And he based the Eiffel
Tower on an obelisk.
That city is literally loaded
with esoteric symbolism.
But when we look
at these obelisks,
we find them all over
the world in front
of important
governmental buildings
or even in Washington DC
with the Washington Monument.
And why that is that
these act like acupuncture
needles on the planet to
realign energy that we are all
receiving on some level.
But churches and
temples are filled
with beautiful
historicity and symbolism.
Especially if we look at
the work of Jay Weidner
and Vincent Bridges'
classic book "The Mysteries
of the Great Cross
of Hendaye" where
they go into fantastic
detail about the observations
made by the
alchemist Fulcanelli,
who decoded the
Gothic art hidden
in European cathedrals, which
included kabbalistic meanings,
cycles, and transformation.
If you've ever looked at
the outside of a church,
you will notice these
giant steeples which
are shaped like
phalluses, and the windows
look like yoni openings.
Sexual symbolism is
found all throughout
our ancient religions,
because it represents
God's procreative power.
And this was very sacred
to the mystery schools.
When you go inside of the church
and move closer to the altar,
you move closer
to the womb, which
is where the preacher stands.
The yoni and phallus
were worshipped
all throughout the ancient
world and were never
meant to be anything vulgar.
On my visits to the ancient
archeological Island
of Delos near Mykonos
in Greece, you still
find evidence of the ancient
phallus worshipping cults.
We find symbolism for the yoni.
If you look carefully
at the depictions
of Saint Mary on her veils
or the gate of the temple,
the oval nimbus and
the vesica pisces,
which you might recognize
as a symbol for Mastercard
with circles superimposed
on each other.
And if you look
carefully, you'll
see that the opening for
the yoni is in the middle.
In the 16th century, there was a
famous occultist and astrologer
named John Dee.
He was the original James
Bond or Double 007 for Queen
Elizabeth I. This is actually
where Ian Fleming got the idea
for his beloved spy character.
Double 007 is not only zero
zero squared with the two eyes
for the queen, but it represents
Tubal-cain or two balls
and a cane.
This is a symbol for
procreative power
and can be seen when you
look above at an illustration
for Solomon's temple.
This symbol is also
important in Freemasonry.
And curiously enough, it looks
just like the Facebook logo.
We also find these symbols
on the American $1 bill.
As Jordan Maxwell
has been pointing out
for years in his lectures,
there's a lot more
going on the outside
of the American $1 bill
as it contains the original seal
for the Bavarian Illuminati,
which was founded by Adam
Weishaupt on May 1, 1776.
As well in one
corner of the bill,
you can almost
microscopically that there is
the Owl of Minerva or Athena.
But as he'll point out to
you that if you examine
the area where
the pyramid is, we
see that there is a circle
around the pyramid showing us
that the builders of the
Great Pyramid and Stonehenge
were connected.
We also find the coronas of
the rays of the sun blazing
in glory around the circle.
As strange as this
may appear, we also
find this connection is true
of the symbolism traditionally
used on American restrooms.
You might find
that the men's room
had a triangle or a
pyramid representing
this procreative
energy of life, just
like the word for
"pyramid" is the prya-mid
or the fire in the middle.
And the women's
restroom was a circle
for the circle of
life or the womb.
There are many
important connections
to occult symbols of
numerology and patterns
in esoteric teachings.
Some of these come from a
knowledge of Pythagorean number
systems.
The secret societies
also like to use ciphers.
So you would have an
alphanumeric system,
like the letter A is one.
B is two.
C is three.
So for example, 13 13
is M M for Master Mason.
But there are many
astrotheological numbers
that stand out.
Like how Enoch lived
to be 365 years of age,
which is a personification for
the days or cycles of the sun.
We find that the number of
72 is also very significant
as there is a shifting of
degrees in astrological cycles.
This is found over and
over again in the mysteries
with the 72 virgins or 72
like the Greek Septuagint
Bible where we are
told that there are
72 scholars that translated it.
In numerology, we have a
basic foundation of numbers.
Number one means new beginnings,
creativity, and willpower.
Number two is partnerships,
trust choices, and balance.
Number three always means
mastery, completion,
or advancements.
Remember also we
said that this is
connected to the Trinity
or mind, body, and spirit.
Number four represents
hard work, achievement,
and stability.
Number five represents
adventure, passion,
and exploration.
Number six is typically
associated with growth,
learning, and protection.
Number seven universally
represents spirituality,
mysticism, and healing.
Number eight is associated
with new opportunities,
good fortune, and abundance.
Nine is the number of
initiation or the months
you spend in the womb.
Number 10 was always sacred to
Pythagoras as a perfect number.
Not only because
the symbol for it
is the X, which is
like a cross, but it
was meant to symbolize the
attainment of greatness.
It is also the number
of nodes that we
find with the sephiroth on
the Kabbalistic tree of life.
One really cool secret is
that after you understand
the universal
symbolism of numbers,
you can learn to read the Tarot.
Tarot cards are a great system
that use esoteric symbolism.
Their uses were not always
for divination however,
but they also have
meditation purposes.
And traditionally they were used
for sending secret messages.
It's much easier to understand
the esoteric keys to the cards
with the numbers in suits so
that you can ask the cards what
they mean to you.
These are the esoteric keys
to decoding the symbolism used
for the suits in the Tarot.
When you take pentacles,
for an instance,
think of them like money
because we see little coins
with pentacles drawn on them.
When you look at their
astrological signs
they're associated with, these
are Earth signs, like Taurus,
Virgo, Capricorn.
So it has to do with issues
involving money, wealth, power.
In fact, when we look at what
time frames are associated
with this suit of the Tarot,
what you would look at
is the season of
autumn or years.
So for example, if you pulled
a two of pentacles card,
this would represent two years.
When we look at wands, think
of these like creativity,
and fire, and putting out
energy into the world.
These are associated with
clubs in regular playing cards.
We know their
astrological principles
are fire signs, like Aries,
Leo, and Sagittarius.
If you're looking
at their meaning,
we're looking at creativity,
passion, or taking action.
The time frames
associated with this suit
would be weeks or
the season of spring.
When we examine swords,
we find that they
have an intellectual or
mental association with them,
which you can memorize by using
an association with the saying,
"she was sharp as a sword".
The equivalent in playing
cards is actually spades.
There's an astrological
association
here with air signs with
Aquarius, Libra, and Gemini.
Again these are matters
of intellect, thoughts,
and observation.
The time frames associated
with these suits
are months or the
season of winter.
When we look at cups, these
are matters of the heart,
of emotions.
Think of drinking
in, taking things in.
The equivalent with
playing cards are hearts.
The astrological
association with these
are water signs, such as
Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces.
The time frames are days of the
week or the season of summer.
Once you master
reading the suits,
you can apply the knowledge of
esoteric numerology to them.
For example, if you get a one
or an ace of a suit like swords,
this is a new
beginning involving
an intellectual matter,
such as a new job.
If you get a two of cups,
this is a new partnership
or relationship involving
an emotional connection.
There's a cool trick you can use
to read the major arcana also.
This is just the story of
the trials and tribulations
of human life.
The first card is 0
or the fool, which
is why we call this the
journey of the fool.
A little secret is the same
man on the magician card of 1
and the same woman on the
high priestess card of 2
are the characters that follow
you through the entire journey,
all the way up to card 21.
But the 21 is the 1
and 2 coming together
of card one and two of both
the masculine and feminine,
in perfect balance for
the androgynous nature
of the universal spirit.
Using this
understanding, you can
try doing your own Tarot
spread by asking a question
and seeing what cards
come out of your deck
or split them into three
cards of one, two, and three
for past, present, and future.
Symbols are the hidden
or esoteric foundations
of cultures around the world.
Everything we do throughout
life, whether we know it
or not, is based and organized
upon cultural and esoteric
symbolism.
If there's one thing that
the mystery schools teach us,
it's to always seek
the deeper meanings
and explore
universal truths that
lay hidden below the
surface level thinking mind.
I'm Jonny Enoch, and thanks for
watching "Mystery Teachings."
[THEME MUSIC]